DOCS-631: Add content types and templates (#2270)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/appendix/contributing.md

All documentation is in the [docs folder](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/tree/main/docs).
For information about Hugo and how to develop locally, see the [README](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/README.md).

## Content Types

The docs use the [Diátaxis Framework](https://diataxis.fr/) as the basis of the content structure with the following four content types:

- **Explanation (conceptual)**: An understanding-oriented piece of content.

>   This content provides background knowledge on a topic and tends to be linked from how-to guides and tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This content provides background knowledge on a topic and tends to be linked to from how-to guides and tutorials.
```
[opt]

  For example the [Robot Development Kit page](https://docs.viam.com/internals/rdk/) or the [Registry page](https://docs.viam.com/registry/).

>   It’s useful to have a real or imagined why question to serve as a prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It’s useful to have a real or imagined "Why?" question to serve as a prompt.
```
[opt]

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Concept

>   Introductory paragraph. Possibly containing further subsections or links to relevant conceptual information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Introductory paragraph.
  Possibly containing further subsections or links to relevant conceptual information.
```
[nit]

  ## Subconcept

  Paragraphs containing explanation. Add imagery as needed.

  (possibly more Subconcept sections)

>   ### Do x with Subconcept (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ### Do x with subconcept (optional)
```
[nit][opt] Do we want to generally encourage sentence case headings? I was under the impression that that is generally the move, though we've not been consistent

>   Information for what to do with the concept (possibly linking to How-tos or containing how-tos).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Information for what to do with the concept (possibly linking to how-tos or containing how-tos).
```
[nit]

  ## Next Steps

  Links to related content.
  ```

>   {{% /expand%}}

Author: ```suggestion
  {{% /expand %}}
```

> - **How-to Guides (procedural)**: A task-oriented piece of content that directs a reader to perform actions step by step to complete a task, like a recipe. Generally starts with a description of the task and things to consider and then provides a set of numbered steps to follow. For example, the [Installation page](https://docs.viam.com/get-started/installation/) or the [Find module page](https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **How-to Guide (procedural)**: A task-oriented piece of content that directs a reader to perform actions step by step to complete a task, like a recipe.
Generally starts with a description of the task and things to consider and then provides a set of numbered steps to follow.
For example, the [Installation page](https://docs.viam.com/get-started/installation/) or the [Find module page](https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/).
```
[nit] consistency

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Do this task

  Description of task. Possibly containing further subsections.

  ## Do x

  1. Ordered list of actions to perform. Written in imperative form. Add imagery as needed.

  (possibly more Do X sections)

  ## Next Steps

  Links to related content.
  ```

>   {{% /expand%}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {{% /expand %}}
```
[mega nit] I guess it's like this throughout this doc

> - **Tutorials**: A learning-oriented piece of content that functions as a lesson for the reader. A tutorial helps readers to learn skills by doing something meaningful and attainable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tutorial**: A learning-oriented piece of content that functions as a lesson for the reader.
A tutorial helps readers to learn skills by doing something meaningful and attainable.
```
[nit]

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Do X with Y

  Outline the why.
  Tell the story of the machine.

  ## Requirements

  What does the reader need to already know.
  What will you be using (hardware/software).

  ## Build X

  Build steps

  ## Configure your X

  Configuration steps

  ## Program your X

  Code and directions.

>   ## Next steps

Reviewer: [nit] Sentence case here vs title case above; I vote for sentence case

  Link to other tutorials with cards or text.

  {{< cards >}}
  {{% card link="/tutorials/get-started/blink-an-led" %}}
  {{< /cards >}}
  ```

  For the full template see [template.md](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/tutorials/template.md).

>   {{% /expand%}}

Author: ```suggestion
  {{% /expand %}}
```

> - **Reference**: A concise, information-oriented piece of content that generally starts with an overview/introduction and then a list of some kind (configuration options, api methods, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Reference**: A concise, information-oriented piece of content that generally starts with an overview/introduction and then a list of some kind (configuration options, API methods, etc.).
```
[nit]

  Examples include the [API pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/program/apis/) as well as [component and service pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/configure/components/arm/).

  Example template: [Component template](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/build/configure/components/component/_index.md).

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Product, Feature or API Name

>   Description or introduction. Possibly containing further subsections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Description or introduction.
  Possibly containing further subsections.
```
[nit]

>   ## List or table of items

Reviewer: What would this title actually be? It wouldn't be "List of API Methods"... would it be i.e. "API Methods" or should this heading actually not be here at all?

Author: Examples:
- https://docs.viam.com/build/configure/components/arm/#api
- https://docs.viam.com/build/program/apis/data-client/#api

On the configure page there is no heading: https://docs.viam.com/build/configure/

```suggestion
  ## List or table of items (heading optional as needed)
```

  - Unordered list of options

  (possibly more information for each option)

  ## Next Steps

  Links to related content.
  ```

>   {{% /expand%}}

Author: ```suggestion
  {{% /expand %}}
```

All documentation is in the [docs folder](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/tree/main/docs).
For information about Hugo and how to develop locally, see the [README](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/README.md).

## Content Types

The docs use the [Diátaxis Framework](https://diataxis.fr/) as the basis of the content structure with the following four content types:

- **Explanation (conceptual)**: An understanding-oriented piece of content.
  This content provides background knowledge on a topic and tends to be linked to from how-to guides and tutorials.
  For example the [Robot Development Kit page](https://docs.viam.com/internals/rdk/) or the [Registry page](https://docs.viam.com/registry/).
  It’s useful to have a real or imagined "Why?" question to serve as a prompt.

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Concept

  Introductory paragraph.
  Possibly containing further subsections or links to relevant conceptual information.

  ## Subconcept

>   Paragraphs containing explanation. Add imagery as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Paragraphs containing explanation. Add imagery as needed.
      - Provide context and address potential points of confusion.
      - Add real or hypothetical examples.
```
Maybe this elaboration would be helpful. Not sure about my "bullet points" here though..!

  (possibly more Subconcept sections)

  ### Do x with subconcept (optional)

>   Information for what to do with the concept (possibly linking to how-tos or containing how-tos).

Author: ```suggestion
  Information on potential ways to apply the concept (possibly linking to how-tos or containing how-tos).
```

  ## Next Steps

  Links to related content.
  ```

  {{% /expand %}}

- **How-to Guide (procedural)**: A task-oriented piece of content that directs a reader to perform actions step by step to complete a task, like a recipe.

> Generally starts with a description of the task and things to consider and then provides a set of numbered steps to follow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally starts with a description of the task and things to consider, and then provides a set of numbered steps to follow.
```
I thought the comma could add structure.

For example, the [Installation page](https://docs.viam.com/get-started/installation/) or the [Find module page](https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/).

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Do this task

>   Description of task. Possibly containing further subsections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Description of task and considerations. Possibly containing further subsections.
```
Suggestion in case someone reads over the description quickly and goes straight to the template.

  ## Do x

  1. Ordered list of actions to perform. Written in imperative form. Add imagery as needed.

  (possibly more Do X sections)

>   ## Next Steps

Author: ```suggestion
  ## Next steps
```

  Links to related content.
  ```

  {{% /expand %}}

- **Tutorial**: A learning-oriented piece of content that functions as a lesson for the reader.

> A tutorial helps readers to learn skills by doing something meaningful and attainable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tutorial helps readers to learn and apply skills by doing something meaningful and attainable.
```
small very subjective suggestion

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Do X with Y

  Outline the why.

>   Tell the story of the machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Tell the story of the machine.
      - Explain the machine's use and origin.
```
subjective suggestion, not sure if elaboration here is needed

  ## Requirements

  What does the reader need to already know.
  What will you be using (hardware/software).

  ## Build X

>   Build steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Build steps.
```
Just for uniformity w/"Program your X"

  ## Configure your X

>   Configuration steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Configuration steps.
```
Same as above suggestion

  ## Program your X

  Code and directions.

  ## Next steps

  Link to other tutorials with cards or text.

>   {{< cards >}}
>   {{% card link="/tutorials/get-started/blink-an-led" %}}
>   {{< /cards >}}

Reviewer 3: Think we need to escape these curly brackets to get this to render as-is within code fences. I think the following should work here:

```suggestion
  {{</* cards */>}}
  {{%/* card link="/tutorials/get-started/blink-an-led" */%}}
  {{</* /cards */>}}
```

  ```

  For the full template see [template.md](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/tutorials/template.md).

  {{% /expand %}}

- **Reference**: A concise, information-oriented piece of content that generally starts with an overview/introduction and then a list of some kind (configuration options, API methods, etc.).
  Examples include the [API pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/program/apis/) as well as [component and service pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/configure/components/arm/).

  Example template: [Component template](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/build/configure/components/component/_index.md).

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Product, Feature or API Name

  Description or introduction.
  Possibly containing further subsections.

  ## List or table of items

  - Unordered list of options

  (possibly more information for each option)

>   ## Next Steps

Author: ```suggestion
  ## Next steps
```

All documentation is in the [docs folder](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/tree/main/docs).
For information about Hugo and how to develop locally, see the [README](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/README.md).

## Content Types

> The docs use the [Diátaxis Framework](https://diataxis.fr/) as the basis of the content structure with the following four content types:

Author: ```suggestion

When creating a new piece of content, decide which one of the four content types the content should be.
Note this in a comment in the frontmatter of the file.

The docs use the [Diátaxis Framework](https://diataxis.fr/) as the basis of the content structure with the following four content types:
```

  (possibly more Do X sections)

  ## Next steps

  Links to related content.
  ```

  {{% /expand %}}

- **Tutorial**: A learning-oriented piece of content that functions as a lesson for the reader.
  A tutorial helps readers to learn and apply skills by doing something meaningful and attainable.

  {{% expand "Click to view template" %}}

  ```md
  # Do X with Y

  Outline the why.
  Tell the story of the machine.
  Explain the machine's use and origin.

  ## Requirements

  What does the reader need to already know.
  What will you be using (hardware/software).

  ## Build X

  Build steps.

  ## Configure your X

  Configuration steps.

  ## Program your X

  Code and directions.

  ## Next steps

  Link to other tutorials with cards or text.

  {{</* cards */>}}
  {{%/* card link="/tutorials/get-started/blink-an-led" */%}}
  {{</* /cards */>}}
  ```

  For the full template see [template.md](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/tutorials/template.md).

  {{% /expand %}}

- **Reference**: A concise, information-oriented piece of content that generally starts with an overview/introduction and then a list of some kind (configuration options, API methods, etc.).

>   Examples include the [API pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/program/apis/) as well as [component and service pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/configure/components/arm/).
> 
>   Example template: [Component template](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/build/configure/components/component/_index.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  Examples include the [API pages](https://docs.viam.com/build/program/apis/) as well as [component and service pages](https://docs.viam.com/components/arm/).

  Example template: [Component template](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/docs/components/component/_index.md).
```

All documentation is in the [docs folder](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/tree/main/docs).
For information about Hugo and how to develop locally, see the [README](https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/blob/main/README.md).

## Content Types

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
